
================ PAGE 1 ================
arXiv:2410.02644v4  [cs.CR]  30 May 2025
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
AGENT SECURITY BENCH (ASB):
FORMALIZING AND BENCHMARKING ATTACKS AND
DEFENSES IN LLM- BASED AGENTS
Hanrong Zhang1, Jingyuan Huang2, Kai Mei2, Yifei Yao1, Zhenting Wang2,
Chenlu Zhan1, Hongwei Wang1, Yongfeng Zhang2
1Zhejiang University 2Rutgers University
1{hanrong.22,yifei3.23,chenlu.22,hongweiwang}@intl.zju.edu.cn
2{chy.huang,kai.mei,zhenting.wang,yongfeng.zhang}@rutgers.edu
ABSTRACT
Although LLM-based agents, powered by Large Language Models (LLMs), can
use external tools and memory mechanisms to solve complex real-world tasks,
they may also introduce critical security vulnerabilities. However, the existing
literature does not comprehensively evaluate attacks and defenses against LLM-
based agents. To address this, we introduce Agent Security Bench (ASB), a com-
prehensive framework designed to formalize, benchmark, and evaluate the attacks
and defenses of LLM-based agents, including 10 scenarios (e.g., e-commerce,
autonomous driving, finance), 10 agents targeting the scenarios, over 400 tools,
27 different types of attack/defense methods, and 7 evaluation metrics. Based
on ASB, we benchmark 10 prompt injection attacks, a memory poisoning at-
tack, a novel Plan-of-Thought backdoor attack, 4 mixed attacks, and 11 cor-
responding defenses across 13 LLM backbones. Our benchmark results reveal
critical vulnerabilities in different stages of agent operation, including system
prompt, user prompt handling, tool usage, and memory retrieval, with the high-
est average attack success rate of 84.30%, but limited effectiveness shown in
current defenses, unveiling important works to be done in terms of agent secu-
rity for the community. We also introduce a new metric to evaluate the agents’
capability to balance utility and security. Our code can be found at https:
//github.com/agiresearch/ASB.
1 I NTRODUCTION
Large Language Models (LLMs) have rapidly advanced in their capabilities, enabling them to per-
form tasks such as content generation, question answering, tool calling, coding and many others (Ko-
jima et al., 2024; Jin et al., 2025a; Huang et al., 2022; Jin et al., 2025b; Xu et al., 2024). This has
paved the way for developing AI agents that combine LLMs with tools and memory mechanisms
capable of interacting with broader environments (Ge et al., 2023a; Xu et al., 2025a). These LLM-
based agents have the potential to be deployed in various roles, such as safety-critical domains like
financial services (Yu et al., 2023b), medical care (Abbasian et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2024b), e-
commerce (Zhu et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2025b) and autonomous driving (Mao et al., 2024). As
shown in Fig. 1, an LLM-based agent based on ReAct framework (Yao et al., 2022) usually operates
through several key steps when solving a task: ① Defining roles and behaviors via a system prompt.
② Receiving user instructions and task details. ③ Retrieving relevant information from a memory
database. ④ Planning based on the retrieved information and prior context. ⑤ Executing actions
using external tools.
Although recent research on LLM agents and advanced frameworks has made significant progress,
the primary emphasis has been on their effectiveness and generalization (Qin et al., 2024; Mei et al.,
2024; Ge et al., 2023b), with their trustworthiness remaining largely under-investigated (Hua et al.,
2024). Specifically, while each of these steps mentioned above enables the agent to perform highly
complex tasks, they also provide attackers with multiple points of access to compromise the agent
system. Each stage is vulnerable to different types of adversarial attacks. Although several bench-
1
================ PAGE 2 ================
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
Predefined
System 
Prompt
Long-term
Memory
LLM
User
Planning
Re-thinking
Thoughts
Memory 
Retrieval
Tools
Observation
LLM Agent Framework External 
Environment
Prompt
 Response
ActionShort-term
Memory
PoT Backdoor 
AttackDirect 
Prompt 
Injection
Indirect
Prompt 
Injection
Memory
Poisoning
Attack
Figure 1: Overview of the LLM Agent Attacking Framework, including Direct Prompt Injections
(DPI), Indirect Prompt Injections (IPI), Plan-of-Thought (PoT) Backdoor, and Memory Poisoning
Attacks, which target the user query, observations, system prompts, and memory retrieval respec-
tively of the agent during action planning and execution.
marks have been proposed to evaluate the security of LLM agents, such as InjecAgent (Zhan et al.,
2024) and AgentDojo (Debenedetti et al., 2024), they are often limited by their scope, assessing
either a single type of attack, i.e., Indirect Prompt Injection, or operating in only a few scenarios,
such as financial harm and data security. We compare them with ASB in App. B.3 in detail. To
address these limitations, we introduce Agent Security Bench (ASB), a comprehensive benchmark
that formalizes and evaluates a wide range of adversarial attacks and defenses on LLM-based agents
in ten different scenarios.
Primarily, ASB covers various attack and defense types targeting each operational step of LLM-
based agents, including system prompt, user prompt handling, tool usage, and memory retrieval. It
evaluates Direct Prompt Injections (DPI), Indirect Prompt Injections (IPI), Memory Poisoning, Plan-
of-Thought (PoT) Backdoor Attacks, Mixed Attacks, and their defenses, offering the first holistic
assessment of LLM agents’ security. In detail, a straightforward way to compromise an agent is
through DPI, where attackers directly manipulate the user prompt to guide the agent toward mali-
cious actions. Additionally, the agent’s reliance on external tools introduces further risks, particu-
larly as attackers can embed harmful instructions into tool responses, referred to as IPI. Moreover,
the planning phase of LLM agents faces security risks, as long-term memory modules like RAG
databases (Lewis et al., 2020) can be compromised by memory poisoning attacks, where adversaries
inject malicious task plans or instructions to mislead the agent in future tasks. In addition, since the
system prompt is typically hidden from the user, it becomes a tempting target for Plan-of-Thought
(PoT) Backdoor Attacks, where attackers embed hidden instructions into the system prompt to trig-
ger unintended actions under specific conditions. Finally, attackers can also combine them to create
mixed attacks that target multiple vulnerabilities across different stages of the agent’s operation.
Furthermore, ASB explores the vulnerabilities in agents performing tasks in diverse settings. Specif-
ically, ASB evaluates across 10 task scenarios, 10 corresponding agents, and over 400 tools, includ-
ing both normal and attack tools, and 400 tasks, divided into aggressive and non-aggressive types.
The aggressive tasks assess the agent’s refusal rate in response to risky or aggressive instructions.
Our key contributions are summarized as follows: ① We design and develop Agent Security Bench
(ASB), the first comprehensive benchmark including 10 scenarios (e.g., e-commerce, autonomous
driving, finance), 10 agents targeting the scenarios, over 400 tools and tasks for evaluating the se-
curity of LLM-based agents against numerous attacks and defense strategies. ② We propose a
novel PoT Backdoor Attack, which embeds hidden instructions into the system prompt, exploiting
the agent’s planning process to achieve high attack success rates. ③ We formalize and categorize
various adversarial threats targeting key components of LLM agents, including DPI, IPI, Memory
Poisoning Attacks, PoT Backdoor Attacks, and Mixed Attacks, covering vulnerabilities in system
prompt definition, user prompt handling, memory retrieval, and tool usage. ④ We benchmark 27
different types of attacks and defenses on ASB across 13 LLM backbones with 7 metrics, demon-
strating that LLM-based agents are vulnerable to the attacks, with the highest average attack success
rates exceeding 84.30%. In contrast, existing defenses are often ineffective. Our work highlights the
need for stronger defenses to protect LLM agents from sophisticated adversarial techniques. ⑤ We
introduce the Net Resilient Performance (NRP) metric to assess the agents’ balance between utility
and security and emphasize the importance of performance testing on ASB for selecting suitable
backbones for agent applications.
2
================ PAGE 3 ================
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
2 R ELATED WORK
Prompt Injections Attacks. Prompt injection adds special instructions to the original input, and at-
tackers can manipulate the model’s understanding and induce unexpected outputs (Perez & Ribeiro,
2022; Liu et al., 2023; 2024). The prompt injection can target the user prompt directly (Perez &
Ribeiro, 2022; Selvi, 2022; Toyer et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2023a; Kang et al., 2024) or indirectly in-
fluence the agent’s behavior by manipulating its accessible external environment (Liu et al., 2023;
Greshake et al., 2023; Yi et al., 2023). Debenedetti et al. (2024); Zhan et al. (2024) evaluate the
performance of prompt injection attacks toward agents, but they are limited to Indirect Prompt In-
jection attacks. ASB examines prompt injection attacks on the agent and integrates multiple attacks
across various stages of the agent’s operation.
Agent Memory Poisoning. Memory poisoning involves injecting malicious or misleading data into
a database (a memory unit or a RAG knowledge base) so that when this data is retrieved and pro-
cessed later, it causes the agents to perform malicious actions (Xiang et al., 2024a; Chen et al.,
2024). Yang et al. (2024c); Zhang et al. (2024b); Zhong et al. (2023); Zou et al. (2024) have ex-
clusively examined the effects of poisoning on LLMs and RAG, without considering the impact of
such poisoning on the overall agent framework. Xiang et al. (2024a); Chen et al. (2024) investigates
direct memory poisoning of the LLM agent but is constrained to scenarios where the database’s in-
ternal structure is known. ASB analyzes the impact of poisoning on the agent framework and treats
memory or RAG base as a black box for memory poisoning without knowing the internal structure.
Backdoor Attacks in LLM and LLM Agent. Backdoor attacks embed triggers into the LLMs to
generate noxious outputs (Cai et al., 2022; Wan et al., 2023; Li et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2024a).
BadChain (Xiang et al., 2024b) has engineered specific trigger words designed to disrupt the Chain-
of-Thought (CoT) (Wei et al., 2022) reasoning of LLMs. Kandpal et al. (2023) utilizes trigger
words to disrupt the contextual learning process. Researchers have recently targeted LLM agents
for backdoor attacks (Wang et al., 2024a; Yang et al., 2024c; Dong et al., 2024; Hubinger et al.,
2024).Wang et al. (2024a); Yang et al. (2024c) contaminates task data for fine-tuning LLM agents,
enabling attackers to introduce a threat model. In contrast, the PoT backdoor attack proposed in the
paper is a training-free backdoor attack on the LLM agent.
3 D EFINITIONS TO BASIC CONCEPTS AND THREAT MODEL
3.1 D EFINING BASIC CONCEPTS
LLM Agent with Knowledge Bases. We consider LLM agents utilizing knowledge bases, such as
RAG for corpus retrieval. For a user query q and its tool list, the agent retrieves relevant memory
from a database D = {(k1, v1) , . . . ,
 
k|D|, v|D|

} of query-solution pairs (Wang et al., 2024b).
LLM agents use an encoder Eq to map both the query and keys into a shared embedding space. A
subset EK(q ⊕ T , D) ⊂ D is retrieved, containing the K most relevant keys and values based on the
similarity between q ⊕ T and the database keys. Formally, an agent using RAG aims to maximize:
Eq∼πq [1 (Agent (LLM (psys, q, O, T , EK (q ⊕ T , D))) = ab)] , (1)
where πq denotes the distribution of user queries, LLM is the backbone, and 1 (·) is an indicator
function. The input to the agent is the task plan from the LLM, and the output is a tool-using action
during execution. Here, psys is the system prompt, O = (o1, · · · , om) is a set of observations from
the task trajectory, and T = (τ1, · · · , τn) is the available tool list. ab is the labeled benign action.
We define a target tool list T t = ( τ t
1, · · · , τ t
l ) ⊂ T . If the agent successfully uses all tools in
T t, it achieves ab. EK(q, T , D) refers to K retrieved memories serving as in-context examples for
the LLM, such as prior plans. The backbone LLM decomposes the task and generates action plans
P = (p1, · · · , pr), which the agent follows for each step.
Target task:A task is composed of an instruction, tool list and data. When a user seeks to complete
a task, it is referred to as the target task. We denote the target task as t, its target instruction as qt,
its tool list as T t = ( τ t
1, · · · , τ t
n), and its target data as dt. Each tool τ includes the tool name,
a description of its functionality, and its parameter settings. The user employs an LLM agent to
accomplish the target task. The agent accepts a combination of an instruction promptqt, the tool list
T and data dt in a certain format f as input, which denotes as f (qt, T , dt).
3
================ PAGE 4 ================
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
Injected task: Apart from completing the target task, the direct and Indirect Prompt Injection attacks
both aim to redirect the agent to execute a different task the attacker selects, referring to theinjected
task e. xe denotes its injected instruction, T e = (τ e
1 , · · · , τ e
n) denotes its injected attack tool list and
de signifies its injected data.
3.2 T HREAT MODEL
Adversarial Goal. Generally, the attacker aims to mislead the LLM agent into using a specified
tool, compromising its decision-making in Direct Prompt Injections (DPI), Indirect Prompt Injec-
tions (IPI), Memory Poisoning, Plan-of-Thought (PoT) backdoor attacks and Mixed Attacks. The
Adversarial goal is to maximize:
Eq∼πq [1 (Agent(q, θmalicious) = am)] , (2)
where the adversary aims to maximize the expected probability that the agent when influenced by
adversarial modifications θmalicious, performs a malicious action am for a given input query q. Apart
from this, a PoT backdoor attack should keep benign actions for clean queries. Other notations are
the same as those in Eq. 1. The Adversarial goal is to maximize:
Eq∼πq [1 (Agent(q, θbenign) = ab)] , (3)
where the agent behaves correctly on clean, unaltered inputs. The agent, under benign conditions
θbenign, is expected to perform a benign action ab for input queries q from the distribution πq.
Adversary’s Background Knowledge and Capabilities.① Tools. The attacker knows every detail
of the attack tools, such as their name and functionality. Moreover, the attacker can integrate their
attack tools into the agent’s toolkit, such as manipulating third-party API platforms to add malicious
tools, like the RapidAPI platform (Gino, 2024). ② Backbone LLM. The attacker lacks knowledge
about the agent’s backbone LLM, including architecture, training data, and model parameters. The
agent interacts with the LLM solely through API access, without the ability to manipulate the LLM’s
internal components. ③ System Prompts. The attacker can also craft and insert prompts into the
agent’s system promptpsys to deploy the prompt as a new agent. This aligns closely with real-world
scenarios. Attackers can exploit the increasing reliance on third-party tools or services for prompt
engineering, because writing effective system prompts often demands expertise, leading users to
outsource to external specialists or tools, such as Fiverr (Fiverr, 2024) or ChatGPT plugins (OpenAI,
2024a). These attackers, posing as prompt engineers or providing prompt optimization tools, can
embed backdoors into the system prompts. ④ User Prompts. We adopt the common assumption
from prior backdoor attacks on LLMs (Kandpal et al., 2023; Cai et al., 2022), which posits that the
attacker has access to the user’s prompt and can manipulate it, such as by embedding a trigger. This
assumption is realistic when users rely on third-party prompt engineering services, which could be
malicious, or when a man-in-the-middle attacker (Conti et al., 2016) intercepts the user’s prompt by
compromising the chatbot or the input formatting tools. ⑤ Knowledge Database. Unlike previous
scenarios with white-box access to RAG databases (Zhong et al., 2023) and RAG embedders (Chen
et al., 2024), the attacker has black-box access to RAG databases and embedders.
4 F ORMALIZING ATTACKS AND DEFENSES IN LLM A GENTS
As shown in Fig. 1, the LLM agent handles tasks involving system prompts, user prompts, memory
retrieval, and tool usage, all vulnerable to attacks. An intuitive method is direct prompt manipulation
during the user prompt step, where attackers design malicious prompts to directly call the attack
tools (Sec. 4.1.1 DPI Attacks). Tool usage is also at risk due to reliance on third-party platforms that
may contain malicious instructions (Sec. 4.1.2 IPI Attacks). Additionally, the memory module can
be compromised (Sec. 4.2 Memory Poisoning Attacks), and the hidden system prompt is another
attack target, where we propose a PoT-based backdoor attack (Sec. 4.3). These attacks can also be
combined into mixed attacks (App. A.1 Mixed Attacks). After that, we define the defenses to the
attacks above in Sec. 4.4. Finally, we provide attacking examples in App. A.3.2.
4.1 F ORMALIZING PROMPT INJECTION ATTACKS
Next, we introduce prompt injection attacks, including DPI, which directly manipulates the agent
via user prompts, and IPI, which embeds malicious instructions in tool responses.
4